now to Imran Khan who's over in the
Jordanian Capital Aman and Imran of
course these developments are just
coming through to us in the past uh 45
minutes or to or so talk us through what
we know so far about hamas's
response well what Hamas have told Al
jazer is there are amendments they want
to the ceasefire proposal firstly uh
what they're saying is they want a
complete withdrawal from the entire Gaza
Strip and that includes uh the Rafa
Crossing and the Philadelphia Corridor
the Philadelphia Corridor is basically
the border between Egypt and uh the Gaza
Strip now uh that was delivered by uh is
Hanah uh the political bureau chief of
Hamas all the way to the Prime Minister
and foreign minister of Qatar and the
Egyptian mediators Hamas have now
responded to this they want to talk but
they have these amendments it's all
about whether Israel now is willing to
accept those amendments the fact that
Hamas have responded actually means that
there is a movement on these ceasefire
talks these ceasefire talks had actually
stalled for a very long time Anthony
blinkin the US Secretary of State has
been in the region and he has always
said during his visit over the last
couple of days that this is about Hamas
Hamas need to respond Hamas the onuses
on Hamas to be able to say yes to the
deal well Hamas have now responded so
that kind of goes away now so uh Hamas
also about four or five hours ago said
that they were willing to send
negotiators they so Hamas are now
playing ball
effectively but Israel has a problem now
and here's the the effective problem
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
been absolutely clear about the endgame
of his war on Gaza he wants to dest
destroy Hamas both politically and
militarily he hasn't changed that
effective um plan but now Hamas have
responded they want to talk this is
going to be very difficult for Israel uh
to actually go oh maybe we can't talk
about this because this was an American
resolution in the security Council so
there you go what we're what we're
seeing now is Hamas responding Israel
now having to go back and say well how
much of that response can we deal with
so it's going to be a very difficult
negotiation um for the Americans for the
Ceres and for uh the uh Egyptian
mediators but the fact that it's
actually happened is incredibly
important and and Imran let's talk about
this uh it amounts to essentially a push
back from Hamas the demand for a
complete withdrawal is you mention of
Israeli forces from Gaza how does that
sit politically do you think with
Netanyahu a demand like that given the
pressure that he's under from the far
right well the far right part of his
government have always been very clear
go in flatten Gaza and Destroy Hamas
that's something the Prime Minister has
said publicly we need to destroy Hamas
politically and
militarily so the fact that Hamas are
now saying well you need to withdraw
from the entire Gaza Strip uh including
Rua and the Philadelphia Corridor is not
going to sit well there's a political
consideration here 64 seats of the
Israeli knesset that's all it takes for
prime minister Benjamin NYU to remain in
power as long as he has those 64 seats
in the knesset he can actually stay in
power and resist American pressure
International pressure because the
Coalition internally within the
government is still holding the minute
he starts to kind of weaken that
Coalition by saying okay so maybe we
withdraw our troops if that's what it
takes to get a ceasefire maybe that's
what it takes to get our captives out
that's going to have an impact on the
political future of this we're in this
weird position an where domestic
politics domestic desire to stay in
power in Israel is actually influencing
foreign policy that's what's going on
right now Netanyahu has the Coalition
and the Coalition is backing him but
he's under so much International
pressure the Americans have just pushed
forward a resolution in the union
Security Council that's legally binding
the Irish the Spain uh the Spanish and
other countries have recognized
Palestine as a state there's the icg
ruling uh there's the ICC ruling there's
all of this International pressure upon
him but he can resist it because he has
the domestic votes that he needs to stay
in power that's really the problem that
uh the International Community faces
because he's still in power and this is
something that he can resist but the
Americans are very clear they've been
pushing the ceasefire plan for a long
time now and Hamas have responded and
the American response the American
position was always well Hamas need to
respond well now they've responded all
right um for now